Add version for Llamaindex with FastApi and Auth0 (#10)
oktadev/auth0-assistant0: py-llamaindex/README.md

# Assistant0: An AI Personal Assistant Secured with Auth0 - Llamaindex Python/FastAPI Version

Assistant0 an AI personal assistant that consolidates your digital life by dynamically accessing multiple tools to help you stay organized and efficient.

## About the template

> This template scaffolds an Auth0 + LlamaIndex.js + Next.js starter app. It mainly uses the following libraries:

Reviewer: Next.js ?

> This template scaffolds an Auth0 + LlamaIndex.js + Next.js starter app. It mainly uses the following libraries:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This template scaffolds an Auth0 + LlamaIndex + FastAPI starter app. It mainly uses the following libraries:
```

- The [Auth0 AI SDK](https://github.com/auth0-lab/auth0-ai-python) and [Auth0 FastAPI SDK](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-fastapi) to secure the application and call third-party APIs.
- [Auth0 FGA](https://auth0.com/fine-grained-authorization) to define fine-grained access control policies for your tools and RAG pipelines.

## 🚀 Getting Started

First, clone this repo and download it locally.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-assistant0.git
cd auth0-assistant0/py-llamaindex
```

The project is divided into two parts:

- `backend/` contains the backend code for the Web app and API written in Python using FastAPI.
- `frontend/` contains the frontend code for the Web app written in React as a Vite SPA.

### Setup the backend

```bash
cd backend
```

Next, you'll need to set up environment variables in your repo's `.env` file. Copy the `.env.example` file to `.env`.

To start with the basic examples, you'll just need to add your OpenAI API key and Auth0 credentials.

- To start with the examples, you'll just need to add your OpenAI API key and Auth0 credentials for the Web app.

>   - You can setup a new Auth0 tenant with an Auth0 Web App and Token Vault following the Prerequisites instructions [here](https://auth0.com/ai/docs/call-others-apis-on-users-behalf).

Reviewer: Can we describe some place how you are configuring this app with Auth? E.g. "Create an API..", "Create a SPA application"... etc.

I'm having trouble following this at the moment, and it's quite important as far as what auth flow we want to use.

If going for an Auth0 API/resource server for the Fast API + embedded llamaindex agent, and a SPA application for the client, we'll like want to make use of the new access token / token vault flow. (more like this example w/ a SPA: https://github.com/auth0/docs-v2/pull/39)

If going for a FastAPI (app) (Regular Web App for the Auth0 client) like the existing example [here](https://auth0.com/ai/docs/get-started/call-others-apis-on-users-behalf#langgraph-%2B-fastapi), and an embedded llamaindex agent, we'll likely be fine w/ the existing refresh token / token vault exchange flow.

If going for a FastAPI (app) (Regular Web App for the Auth0 client) like the existing example [here](https://auth0.com/ai/docs/get-started/call-others-apis-on-users-behalf#langgraph-%2B-fastapi), and an external llamaindex agent/external LangGraph server, we'll likely want access token / token vault exchange flow (and the AT provided to Langgraph server).

  - An Auth0 FGA account, you can create one [here](https://dashboard.fga.dev). Add the FGA store ID, client ID, client secret, and API URL to the `.env` file.

Next, install the required packages using your preferred package manager, e.g. uv:

```bash
uv sync
```

Now you're ready to start the database:

```bash
# start the postgres database
docker compose up -d
```

Initialize FGA store:

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
python -m app.core.fga_init
```

Now you're ready to run the development server:

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate

> uv run uvicorn app.main:app --reload

Reviewer 2: isn't is `fastapi dev app/main.py`
